_pages/SDK/v2.0/022-basics/0222-basics-inspectionplan.md, before:

<h2 id="{{page.sections['basics']['secs']['inspectionPlan'].anchor}}">{{page.sections['basics']['secs']['inspectionPlan'].title}}</h2>

Examples in this section:
+ [Using the PathHelper class](#-example--using-the-pathhelper-class)
+ [Creating a part with a subpart](#-example--creating-a-part-with-a-subpart)
+ [Fetching different entities](#-example--fetching-different-entities)
+ [Creating characteristics for the part “MetalPart”](#-example--creating-characteristics-for-the-part-metalpart)
+ [Deleting “MetalPart”](#-example--deleting-metalpart)
<hr>

An inspection plan object contains entities of two different types - parts and characteristics. Parts are hold in class `SimplePart`, characteristics are hold in class `InspectionPlanCharacteristic`. Both are derived from the abstract base class `InspectionPlanBase` and consist of the following properties:

<img src="/PiWeb-Api/images/inspection-plan-schema.png" class="img-responsive center-block">

#### InspectionPlanBase

{% capture table %}
Property                                          | Description
--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>Attribute[]</code> Attributes</nobr>  | A set of attributes which describe the entity.
<nobr><code>string</code> Comment</nobr>          | A comment which describes the last inspection plan change. The comment is only returned if versioning is enabled in the server settings.
<nobr><code>PathInformation</code> Path</nobr>    | The path of this entity which describes the entity's hierarchical structure.
<nobr><code>string</code> this[ushort key]</nobr> | Indexer for accessing entity's attribute value directly with the specified key
<nobr><code>DateTime</code> TimeStamp</nobr>      | Contains the date and time of when the entity was last updated.
<nobr><code>Guid</code> Uuid</nobr>               | Identifies this inspection plan entity uniquely.
<nobr><code>uint</code> Version</nobr>            | Contains the entity´s revision number. The revision number starts with `0` and is globally incremented by `1` each time changes are applied to the inspection plan.
{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}

>{{ site.images['info'] }} The version is only updated if *Versioning* is enabled.

>{{ site.images['info'] }} The version/revision of an entity is global. This means that the version counter is the same for every entity in the inspection plan. A part with a version of 34 did not necessarily change 34 times, the version indicates that the 34th change in the whole inspection plan was done to this entity.

A `SimplePart` additionally consists of the timestamp for the most recent characteristic change:

#### SimplePart

{% capture table %}
Property                                          | Description
--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>DateTime</code> CharChangeDate</nobr> | The timestamp for the most recent characteristic change on any characteristic below that part (but not below sub parts). This timestamp is updated by the server backend.

{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}

Parts as well as characteristic may contain a version history if versioning is enabled in server settings. If enabled, parts are represented by class `InspectionPlanPart` which is derived from `SimplePart`:

#### InspectionPlanCharacteristic, InspectionPlanPart

{% capture table %}
Property                                               | Description
-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>InspectionPlanBase[]</code> History</nobr> | The version history for this inspection plan entity.

{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}


>{{ site.headers['bestPractice'] }} Create a  `PathInformation` object for an entity
The inspection plan is organized in a tree structure, but saved to the database in a flat representation. The path information helps to convert from flat to tree structure.

As pointed in the upper section a `PathInformation` object includes an entity's path as well as its structure. To create a `PathInformation` object you might use the `PathHelper` class which includes several helper methods:

{% capture table %}
Method                                               | Description
-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>PathInformation RoundtripString2PathInformation( string path )</code></nobr> | Creates a path information object based on `path` parameter in roundtrip format ("structure:database path")
<nobr><code>PathInformation String2PartPathInformation( string path )</code></nobr>                      | Creates a path information object based on `path` parameter including plain part structure
<nobr><code>PathInformation String2CharacteristicPathInformation( string path )</code></nobr>            | Creates a path information object based on `path` parameter including plain characteristic structure
<nobr><code>PathInformation DatabaseString2PathInformation( string path, string structure)</code></nobr> | Creates a path information object based on `path` and `structure` parameter

{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}

<br>
{{ site.headers['example'] }} Using the `PathHelper` class

{% highlight csharp %}
var characteristicPath = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PPC:/MetalPart/SubPart/Char1/" );
{% endhighlight %}

In the above example a simple path is created using our PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation method. The method needs the path in [roundtrip format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Round-trip_format_conversion), consisting of structure and path.

The structure is a list of the letters *P* and *C*, which are the short form of *part* and *characteristic*. The list is ordered according to the occurring types of entities in the following path string. The example structure is `PPC`, standing for `/Part/Part/Characteristic/`, which matches the types of `/MetalPart/SubPart/Char1/` in the exact order. A path needs to end with `/`.

>{{ site.images['info'] }} Please note that a part or characteristic must not contain a backslash `\`.

<hr>

>{{ site.images['info'] }} `DataServiceClient` in examples refers to an actual instance of `DataServiceRestClient` pointing to a server.

{{ site.headers['example'] }} Creating a part with a subpart

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create a new part
InspectionPlanPart parentPart = new InspectionPlanPart
{
	Uuid = Guid.NewGuid(),
	Path = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation("P:/MetalPart/"),
};
//Create a new part that represents a child of the parentPart
InspectionPlanPart childPart = new InspectionPlanPart
{
	Uuid = Guid.NewGuid(),
	Path = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation("PP:/MetalPart/SubPart/"),
};

//Create parts on the server
await DataServiceClient.CreateParts( new[] { parentPart, childPart } );
{% endhighlight %}
The name of the part is specified within its path. Nesting is easy as you just create the path and structure according to your desired hierarchy. Remember again that characteristics cannot contain parts.

{{ site.headers['example'] }} Fetching different entities

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create PathInformation of "MetalPart"
var partPath = PathHelper.String2PartPathInformation( "/MetalPart/" );

//Fetch all parts below "MetalPart"
var parts = await DataServiceClient.GetParts( partPath );

//Fetch all characteristics below "MetalPart"
var characteristics = await DataServiceClient.GetCharacteristics( partPath );
{% endhighlight %}
You can fetch different entities with the corresponding method. The path specifies the entry point from where you want to fetch data. Setting the search depth is also possible, the default value is null, which is equal to an unlimited search and returns all characteristics of the part with their child characteristics. Please note that this does not include characteristics of subparts, to fetch these you have to use the according subpart-path.

>{{ site.headers['bestPractice'] }} Create or update multiple entities in a single call
To achieve a good performance, it is highly recommended to create or update items in a single call. That is why all create and update methods expect an array parameter.

{{ site.headers['example'] }} Creating characteristics for the part "MetalPart"

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create characteristics for MetalPart
var charPath1 = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PC:/MetalPart/Char1/" );
var charPath2 = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PC:/MetalPart/Char2/" );
//Create characteristic for SubPart
var charPath3 = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PPC:/MetalPart/SubPart/Char3/" );

//Create InspectionPlanCharacteristic objects
var char1 = new InspectionPlanCharacteristic { Path = char1Path, Uuid = Guid.NewGuid() };
var char2 = new InspectionPlanCharacteristic { Path = char2Path, Uuid = Guid.NewGuid() };
var char3 = new InspectionPlanCharacteristic { Path = char3Path, Uuid = Guid.NewGuid() };

//Use Client to create characteristics on server
await DataServiceClient.CreateCharacteristics( new[] {char1, char2, char3} );
{% endhighlight %}

<br>
{{ site.headers['example'] }} Deleting "MetalPart"

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create PathInformation of "MetalPart"
var partPath = PathHelper.String2PartPathInformation("/MetalPart/");

//Get the part from server, depth 0 to only get the exact part and no children
var parts = await dataServiceClient.GetParts(partPath, depth:0);
//Get the part from the returned array (first entry in our case)
var metalPart = parts.First();

//Delete the part by its Uuid
await dataServiceClient.DeleteParts(new[] {parts.Uuid});
{% endhighlight %}

>{{ site.images['info'] }} Deleting a part also deletes its subparts, characteristics and measurements. This is only possible if the server setting *"Parts with measurement data can be deleted"* is activated.

Commit message:

doc: Add known limitations
- added known limitations to .NET SDK and DataService

_pages/SDK/v2.0/022-basics/0222-basics-inspectionplan.md, after:

<h2 id="{{page.sections['basics']['secs']['inspectionPlan'].anchor}}">{{page.sections['basics']['secs']['inspectionPlan'].title}}</h2>

Examples in this section:
+ [Using the PathHelper class](#-example--using-the-pathhelper-class)
+ [Creating a part with a subpart](#-example--creating-a-part-with-a-subpart)
+ [Fetching different entities](#-example--fetching-different-entities)
+ [Creating characteristics for the part “MetalPart”](#-example--creating-characteristics-for-the-part-metalpart)
+ [Deleting “MetalPart”](#-example--deleting-metalpart)
<hr>

An inspection plan object contains entities of two different types - parts and characteristics. Parts are hold in class `SimplePart`, characteristics are hold in class `InspectionPlanCharacteristic`. Both are derived from the abstract base class `InspectionPlanBase` and consist of the following properties:

<img src="/PiWeb-Api/images/inspection-plan-schema.png" class="img-responsive center-block">

#### InspectionPlanBase

{% capture table %}
Property                                          | Description
--------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>Attribute[]</code> Attributes</nobr>  | A set of attributes which describe the entity.
<nobr><code>string</code> Comment</nobr>          | A comment which describes the last inspection plan change. The comment is only returned if versioning is enabled in the server settings.
<nobr><code>PathInformation</code> Path</nobr>    | The path of this entity which describes the entity's hierarchical structure.
<nobr><code>string</code> this[ushort key]</nobr> | Indexer for accessing entity's attribute value directly with the specified key
<nobr><code>DateTime</code> TimeStamp</nobr>      | Contains the date and time of when the entity was last updated.
<nobr><code>Guid</code> Uuid</nobr>               | Identifies this inspection plan entity uniquely.
<nobr><code>uint</code> Version</nobr>            | Contains the entity´s revision number. The revision number starts with `0` and is globally incremented by `1` each time changes are applied to the inspection plan.
{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}

>{{ site.images['info'] }} The version is only updated if *Versioning* is enabled.

>{{ site.images['info'] }} The version/revision of an entity is global. This means that the version counter is the same for every entity in the inspection plan. A part with a version of 34 did not necessarily change 34 times, the version indicates that the 34th change in the whole inspection plan was done to this entity.

A `SimplePart` additionally consists of the timestamp for the most recent characteristic change:

#### SimplePart

{% capture table %}
Property                                          | Description
--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>DateTime</code> CharChangeDate</nobr> | The timestamp for the most recent characteristic change on any characteristic below that part (but not below sub parts). This timestamp is updated by the server backend.

{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}

Parts as well as characteristic may contain a version history if versioning is enabled in server settings. If enabled, parts are represented by class `InspectionPlanPart` which is derived from `SimplePart`:

#### InspectionPlanCharacteristic, InspectionPlanPart

{% capture table %}
Property                                               | Description
-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>InspectionPlanBase[]</code> History</nobr> | The version history for this inspection plan entity.

{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}


>{{ site.headers['bestPractice'] }} Create a  `PathInformation` object for an entity
The inspection plan is organized in a tree structure, but saved to the database in a flat representation. The path information helps to convert from flat to tree structure.

As pointed in the upper section a `PathInformation` object includes an entity's path as well as its structure. To create a `PathInformation` object you might use the `PathHelper` class which includes several helper methods:

{% capture table %}
Method                                               | Description
-----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------
<nobr><code>PathInformation RoundtripString2PathInformation( string path )</code></nobr> | Creates a path information object based on `path` parameter in roundtrip format ("structure:database path")
<nobr><code>PathInformation String2PartPathInformation( string path )</code></nobr>                      | Creates a path information object based on `path` parameter including plain part structure
<nobr><code>PathInformation String2CharacteristicPathInformation( string path )</code></nobr>            | Creates a path information object based on `path` parameter including plain characteristic structure
<nobr><code>PathInformation DatabaseString2PathInformation( string path, string structure)</code></nobr> | Creates a path information object based on `path` and `structure` parameter

{% endcapture %}
{{ table | markdownify | replace: '<table>', '<table class="table table-hover">' }}

<br>
{{ site.headers['example'] }} Using the `PathHelper` class

{% highlight csharp %}
var characteristicPath = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PPC:/MetalPart/SubPart/Char1/" );
{% endhighlight %}

In the above example a simple path is created using our PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation method. The method needs the path in [roundtrip format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Round-trip_format_conversion), consisting of structure and path.

The structure is a list of the letters *P* and *C*, which are the short form of *part* and *characteristic*. The list is ordered according to the occurring types of entities in the following path string. The example structure is `PPC`, standing for `/Part/Part/Characteristic/`, which matches the types of `/MetalPart/SubPart/Char1/` in the exact order. A path needs to end with `/`.

>{{ site.images['info'] }} Please note that a part or characteristic must not contain a backslash `\`.

>{{ site.headers['knownLimitation'] }} Handling of ß (german sharp s)
The german letter **ß** is represented as **ss** internally. This means that names for parts or characteristics like *Masse* and *Maße* are not unique.

<hr>

>{{ site.images['info'] }} `DataServiceClient` in examples refers to an actual instance of `DataServiceRestClient` pointing to a server.

{{ site.headers['example'] }} Creating a part with a subpart

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create a new part
InspectionPlanPart parentPart = new InspectionPlanPart
{
	Uuid = Guid.NewGuid(),
	Path = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation("P:/MetalPart/"),
};
//Create a new part that represents a child of the parentPart
InspectionPlanPart childPart = new InspectionPlanPart
{
	Uuid = Guid.NewGuid(),
	Path = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation("PP:/MetalPart/SubPart/"),
};

//Create parts on the server
await DataServiceClient.CreateParts( new[] { parentPart, childPart } );
{% endhighlight %}
The name of the part is specified within its path. Nesting is easy as you just create the path and structure according to your desired hierarchy. Remember again that characteristics cannot contain parts.

{{ site.headers['example'] }} Fetching different entities

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create PathInformation of "MetalPart"
var partPath = PathHelper.String2PartPathInformation( "/MetalPart/" );

//Fetch all parts below "MetalPart"
var parts = await DataServiceClient.GetParts( partPath );

//Fetch all characteristics below "MetalPart"
var characteristics = await DataServiceClient.GetCharacteristics( partPath );
{% endhighlight %}
You can fetch different entities with the corresponding method. The path specifies the entry point from where you want to fetch data. Setting the search depth is also possible, the default value is null, which is equal to an unlimited search and returns all characteristics of the part with their child characteristics. Please note that this does not include characteristics of subparts, to fetch these you have to use the according subpart-path.

>{{ site.headers['knownLimitation'] }} Missing filter possibilities
Not all endpoints provide extensive filter possibilities, as it is much more performant to filter on client side. This reduces additional workload for the server.

>{{ site.headers['bestPractice'] }} Create or update multiple entities in a single call
To achieve a good performance, it is highly recommended to create or update items in a single call. That is why all create and update methods expect an array parameter.

{{ site.headers['example'] }} Creating characteristics for the part "MetalPart"

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create characteristics for MetalPart
var charPath1 = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PC:/MetalPart/Char1/" );
var charPath2 = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PC:/MetalPart/Char2/" );
//Create characteristic for SubPart
var charPath3 = PathHelper.RoundtripString2PathInformation( "PPC:/MetalPart/SubPart/Char3/" );

//Create InspectionPlanCharacteristic objects
var char1 = new InspectionPlanCharacteristic { Path = char1Path, Uuid = Guid.NewGuid() };
var char2 = new InspectionPlanCharacteristic { Path = char2Path, Uuid = Guid.NewGuid() };
var char3 = new InspectionPlanCharacteristic { Path = char3Path, Uuid = Guid.NewGuid() };

//Use Client to create characteristics on server
await DataServiceClient.CreateCharacteristics( new[] {char1, char2, char3} );
{% endhighlight %}

<br>
{{ site.headers['example'] }} Deleting "MetalPart"

{% highlight csharp %}
//Create PathInformation of "MetalPart"
var partPath = PathHelper.String2PartPathInformation("/MetalPart/");

//Get the part from server, depth 0 to only get the exact part and no children
var parts = await dataServiceClient.GetParts(partPath, depth:0);
//Get the part from the returned array (first entry in our case)
var metalPart = parts.First();

//Delete the part by its Uuid
await dataServiceClient.DeleteParts(new[] {parts.Uuid});
{% endhighlight %}

>{{ site.images['info'] }} Deleting a part also deletes its subparts, characteristics and measurements. This is only possible if the server setting *"Parts with measurement data can be deleted"* is activated.
